Welcome back to the computer
forensics path.
And this course course 11 we're talking
about creating a forensic image.
This is actually acquiring our disk image.
We've covered sterilizing
our target media.
We talked about validating our tools.
We've talked about creating
a clone have a hard drive and
we also talked about
creating a forensic image.
In this module,
module five, we're going to
talk about using the DG
in D CFLDD commands.
Now let's talk about the syntax
of the Lennox DD command.
DD the IF that we're going to use
to execute this command stands for
input file.
This is the file that we're copying and
this is very important to remember
because if you confuse the input and
the output file you're going to
override the evidence.
The OF is the output file.
This is where we're writing
the evidence to our target media.
This is what we would have sterilized.
And OF stands for output file.
DD stands for just duplicate.
So we're duplicating a disk,
we're creating a forensic image.
We need to tell the software
the program what
file we're copying and
we were copying it to.
So what dr are we copying And
this works on a full disk or
it would work on a partition.
But we have to tell it
what we're copying and
where we're copying it to to create
a duplicate copy of a partition.
And we're talking about using Lennox.
We're going to use the pseudo so
we can get permission if you're
not already locked in his room then
we'd use the DD for just duplicate I F.
For our input file and we have the equal
sign and then the path to the input file.
In this we're copying
a petition sda one and
then the output file Is going to
be in a directory called Case one.
And I'm naming that file disc a one
dot tv now to copy the physical disk.
But again, we would need to use the Sudo
command if we weren't route D D and
then our input file is going to be S D,
a s D b, S D C,
depending on what you know what
dr letter we are mounted as.
So it would be S D and
then A B, C, D E etcetera.
And then the output file again,
we're going to tell the directory and
the file name.
Now, if you happen to be in the directory
that you want to copy this to,
you don't have to put a directory,
you can just put the file new
now the list of disk partitions.
Because we're going to need
to list the partition.
So we make sure that we are using
the right input file and
the right output file.
And there are some commands
we could use here,
we could use pseudo,
we could use f disk minus L.
We could use the L S B L K or
we can use Mt.
So we want to list the partitions,
locate our drives, make sure it works.
Have the correct output input files.
Now, D C F L D D.
We can create a forensic evidence
file with a verification value.
Yeah.
So we can do our MD five and
our shore one with D C F L D D.
Now in this particular command we
are asking for the MD five hash but
you can ask for the shore one as well.
But when you look at this command,
it is the MD five hash that will
automatically be created when
we execute this command.
And again, our input file would
be in our device folder and
then it would be S T A, R, S, D, B or C or
whatever it is mounted as And
then her output file.
This is simply put in
the home directory and
than it has to file name now hash we're
telling it we want to hash so half.
And I'm saying equals MD five and
then we have to have a hash
law where we're writing this hash out too,
so hash log equals.
And then the file path in
the file name to where we want to
output are hash log and
again to list the partitions in the disk,
including the size we can use
our f disk minus L command.
There is another command we can use and
this is newer and
I really like the way this one works
better And we're going to get to see that
when we go through our demo,
we'll walk through each one of these and
I'll show you the output it gives,
but it's called DC three DD.
And with DC three DD.
We can create our hash values
the same as we did in D c f L D G.
But the command is just
easier to write and
the information it gives
us is more robust.
We get more information.
You'll get about the same information
as you would with fbK immature, you're
going to get the time it started, you're
going to get how many bytes it copied.
You're going to get a lot of information
and we'll see this way do I walk through.
So the command works pretty much
the same way It starts with DC three DD.
Because that is the program that
we're running our input file,
which is going to equal deaf for device.
and then this one happens to be STB but
it could be Akkad depends
on what drives you want to image and
where the file system mounted it.
And then we have hohf,
which is a little different.
HDs for hash and
o F stands for output file.
So we're hash of the output file and
that equals STD dot i M G.
And that's what I'm naming the image.
I'll profile with a hash value
is going to be STB dot i m G And
I have half equals empty
five Passion Equal Shaw one.
So I'm doing an MD five and
assure one with this command and
now I'm going to output it to a log and
it says log equals hash dot txt.
That's what I'm naming my log.
Hashtag txt Okay.
Mhm.
By default it will write this hash log.
If I do not put a file path in here, it's
going to write it and whatever folder I'm
in in terminal and we'll see that
when we do our walk through.
Okay.
We're going to do our demo now of our
three commands that we talked about.
The DD command, the D C F L D.
D command In the DC three DD command,
We're going to do a demonstration and
this is a demonstration only because I'm
running it on a Lennox virtual machine.
If you do have the Lennox VM and you want
to follow along at home, That's great.
The commands we're going
to be using are going
to be D D D C F L D D and D C three D D.
And these are the commands we
talked about for imaging a drive,
full drive or logical volume in Lennox.
Now the D.
D command will image the drive.
The syntax of the command is D.
D.
And then we have our input file I.
F.
And
we have to give it the path to the drive.
So this is DEv STB is
the path to the drive.
We're going to image now the output file.
I'm putting it in this folder
on my desktop called task.
So it would be home my name because
I'm the user desktop test and
I'm calling it flash drive dot
I M G flash drive dot image.
Now when I do this, but
before I would do this,
let's back up just a minute for a second.
You probably want to if you were
doing this on the system and
you were doing it live before you created
the image, you would want to go ahead and
list your blocks out and
take a look at what you wanted to image.
So let's list the blocks
out to list the blocks out.
I'm going to use the LS for
list and then B L K for list block.
Now we do this, we can see all
the drives that can be mounted here and
I see my STB,
I can see how big it is, it's 120 MB.
It is my USB test drive and
that is the one
that I want to create a DVD
image of the command.
Again, D D for dis duplicate.
I.
F is the input file and
we're pointing it at this
S D B O F is the output file and
I'm going to output to this
test folder on my desktop.
Now when I hit enter,
it's going to take a second to run and
it's already finished and
it tells you how many records in and
how many records out
that number should match.
It tells you how many bytes that it copied
and it gives us you in megabytes also,
but it is not automatically
creating a hash value.
If we go and look in our test folder,
we can see our flash drive dot image.
Now D c F L d D.
We can create a MD five and
sha one image if we'd like,
as we're creating the image itself and
it runs that fast.
So let's take a look at the command.
It's D C F L D D again,
our input file, which is the same.
It's in the devices and
it's STB I asked for
a hash MD five and
sha one I output in my MD five
to MD five log equals MD five dot txt.
The MD five log is what it's creating and
I have to give it a file name.
The show one log is the same show
one log equals shaw one dot txt.
I could have named these anything but
I named them MD five dot txt.
And shaw one dot txt So I know what they
are but you can name them whatever you'd
like and I have the hash converting after
and bs is the sector size of 5, 12.
Now my output file I'm calling
it tests USB two dot image and
then again it tells me the blocks
written and the blocks in and out and
all those numbers should match.
And I go ahead and look in my test folder,
I can see that I have my test to image.
I still have my flash drive image but
I have my test to image and
I have my MD five which gives
me the MD five hash value and
the shaw one which gives
me the shaw one hash value.
The next command I'm going
to show you is the one that
I really like the best and
that is the D C three D D.
And you'll see why in a second.
So I'm going to go ahead and
copy this command.
I'm going to paste it here and
it will run as soon as I paste it.
So we have the Dc three DD.
The input file and
it's the same path devices STB Now
the hash output STB image so
I'm hashing it with an output and
I'm calling the output STB image.
My hash is going to equal an MD five and
sha one and
I'm putting him in the log,
the log equals hash dot txt.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll run the command and
you can see it is we're running and
you can see that it's running because you
see the bites as they're being copied.
So it kind of has a progress bar
similar to what you can do with F D.
K.
Imager.
Whereas the other two we ran them and
we just waited until my
command line came back.
It's finished and we can see that we get
the bytes copied and the bites hashed.
And those number of bytes should match.
We can see the sectors in.
It reports zero bad sectors.
And this is the input results for
the device.
So it's hashing the device
similar to FTK imager and
then it's hashing the output file,
our image file.
And it's giving us the hash values for
the image file and those hashtags match.
And that's showing us that no data on
the drive was changed when we created our
image and that's what makes
a forensically sound image,
that we can show that we made no
changes to the original evidence.
It also gives you a time when it
completed at a time when it started.
So you get more of a robust
output with D C three
D D than we do with the other
commands like D D or even D C F L, D.
D.
We can create the hash values but we don't
get the hash of the evidence in the hash
of the image file so that we can see.
We've made no changes.
You could always hash your image
file using a hash some command,
but that's an extra step.
And with this using this command,
we don't have to take that step.
Now.
What we can also do is I'm going to go
ahead and close terminal for now is I
can take a look at my USB test drive and
I can see what's on there.
What's kind of nice with Lennox.
I'm going to go ahead and
I am going to eject my test drive.
I can open up my test folder and
I can take my STB image and
I can open it with image dismount.
Now I mounted my USB drive,
the original evidence itself or
my test drive in this case and
now I've mounted the image and
I can bring the image up and I can see
that the files are the same as they were
on the test drive and
I could go through that if I wanted to.
So I do have the ability in Lenox
to mount the image as a bribe.
And you also have the ability
to go ahead and amounted.
And that ends our demonstration
of the Lennox D D D C F L D D and
D C three D D commands for imaging.
In our next course, we're going to talk
about hash values and file hashing